# Architecture

This is a high level overview of MelanChat sources.

## Project structure

Server side code (to be run with node.js) lies in src/Server. Likewise, client code (to be loaded by a browser) is located in src/Client. There is an extra folder under src namely Shared which constais code used by both server and client side.

An extra folder at the root, Environment, is included at compile time to determine if the code is being run in production or development mode.

### Client side

On client side there is a folder for each entry point. These entry points are bundled with webpack.

#### External pages

External pages are accessed by non logged in users (if a logged in user tries to access an external page, they will be redirected to /im). Each page has their own route, .e.g login is at /login, landing page is at /, password recovery is at /recover, etc, and a Main file that is compiled as the entry point.

External pages might use browsers API for DOM manipulation instead of a framework.

#### Internal pages

Internal pages require login to be accessed. Non logged users will be redirect to /login upon trying to access them. However, there is only a single entry point exposed to the user, /im. The IM page lazy loads other entry points (like user settings, karma leaboard or user profile edition) and renders them without URL changes.

IM uses purescript-flame as web framework. `Client.IM.Main` kickstarts the application, wires document/window events, handles websocket events and call the appropriated methods for each `IMMessage`. Most logical page divisions will have its own file to process given `IMMessage`s, e.g., there is a contact list, history, chat etc module.

Lazy loaded pages will also have their own `Main` module (e.g. `Client.Profile.Main`) that will handle events and message updates.

#### Miscellaneous

* Resource urls (like CSS or JS files) are not hardcoded, there is a function to set the correct path for production or development

* Most direct DOM manipulation is in DOM.purs and other files under src/Client/Common

* HTTP request are performed by the client generated by purescript-payload. Incorrect paths, missing parameters etc will be type errors

* All pages are server side rendered and only hydrated on client side

* Besides base and external.css, each entry point has it own css file (e.g., im.css, settings.css, etc)

### Server Side

The web server framework is purescript-payload. Routes and their query string, request body, response, access level (a.k.a logged in or not guard) are typed with the `Shared.Spec` module. The handler of each route is set at `Server.Handler`. Guards are at `Server.Guard`.

There is a folder for each route (e.g. /im, /landing etc). Each folder always has a `Handler` module for taking care of routes and other HTTP logic, an `Action` module for domain logic, a `Template` module for rendering markup, and sometimes a `Database` module for SQL queries.

#### Miscellaneous

* If a type is used by both server and client side, then it should be located under the folder Shared

* Pages are always rendered server side so `Template` modules use `view`s from the Shared folder

* Sessions are cookie based. The logged in user id is always available to `Handler` modules via `guards :: { loggedUserID :: PrimaryKey }` in case of internal pages

* The return of a database query is usually a `newtype` over the the record used on client side

* There is a server for HTTP requests and another for websockets. The websocket server uses a wrapper for the ws library